Oracle Project Portfolio Management (PPM) Consultant- job post
Accenture
4.0
4.0 out of 5 stars
Toronto, ON•Hybrid work
Full-time
Accenture
Toronto, ON•Hybrid work
Profile insights
Here’s how the job qualifications align with your profile.
Skills

PPM tools

Oracle

ERP systems

Communication skills

Do you have experience in PPM tools?
Education

Bachelor's

Do you have a Bachelor's?
Languages

English

Do you know English?
&nbsp;
Job details
Here’s how the job details align with your profile.
Job type

Full-time
&nbsp;
Location
Toronto, ON•Hybrid work
&nbsp;
Full job description
We are:

The Advanced Technology Centers (ATCs) is the engine for reinvention in our clients’ transformation journey. Powered by more than 255,000 people across 24 countries, ATCs will provide our clients seamless access to industry insights and innovative technology solutions.

Stronger together!

The Advanced Technology Centers (ATCs) make tremendous impact in solving our clients’ business problems leveraging Innovation, Intelligence, Industry insights, new IT and new technology skills. Now, with the global environment changing at a faster pace, our clients are facing unprecedented challenges and they need us more than ever before. As a Network, ATCs are positioned to unlock greater opportunities and exponential value for our clients.

The value for our clients and our people

For our clients, the Network provides the strength of our geographic diversity, greater resilience, and seamless access to the deepest industry knowledge, the latest in Gen AI solutions, and tech expertise from around the world.

For our people, it brings an opportunity to shape truly boundaryless career paths in a highly collaborative team of experts where they can learn from each other and solve the world’s most complex client challenges.

You are: An experienced Oracle Project Portfolio Management (PPM) Consultant

As an Oracle Project Portfolio Management (PPM) Consultant, your daily tasks will include:

The Work:

Lead the delivery of technology solutions using Oracle PPM Cloud Project Management expertise.
Implement and configure Oracle PPM modules to meet client project management and portfolio requirements.
Develop and customize project workflows, templates, and reporting to enhance project tracking and management.
Manage project timelines, budgets, and resources to ensure quality delivery.
Provide expert technical guidance and support to project teams throughout the implementation lifecycle.
Monitor and optimize PPM system performance and troubleshoot issues to ensure smooth operation.
Collaborate with cross-functional teams and stakeholders to ensure seamless integration of technology solutions, gather requirements, and perform fit-gap analysis.
Develop and deliver training sessions and support materials to help users effectively utilize Oracle PPM features and address evolving needs.
Provide ongoing application support, including system maintenance, updates, and user assistance to ensure long-term effectiveness and user satisfaction.
English is required for this position as this role will regularly interact with English-speaking stakeholders across Canada. Due to the significant high volume of interactions with these English-speaking stakeholders, which is inherent to this position, it is not possible to reorganize the company's activities to avoid this requirement.
This is a hybrid role and will require 2-3 days per week in your local office


Qualifications

Bachelor's degree or equivalent work experience will be considered.
3-5 years of experience in Oracle Cloud PPM implementation projects and/or 3-5 years of experience in supporting Oracle PPM.
Excellent communication and interpersonal skills, capable of working effectively with both technical and non-technical stakeholders.
Bonus Points If:

Oracle Cloud certifications are a plus.
years of experience in conversion activities for different Oracle ERP modules
Knowledge of Oracle PPM processes and data model