Oracle Middleware/DBA Analyst- job post
CMiC
3.4
3.4 out of 5 stars
Toronto, ON
Full-time
Profile insights
Here’s how the job qualifications align with your profile.
Skills

Weblogic

SharePoint

SDLC
+ show more

Do you have experience in Weblogic?
Education

Bachelor's

Do you have a Bachelor's?
&nbsp;
Job details
Here’s how the job details align with your profile.
Job type

Full-time
Shift and schedule

8 hour shift

Weekends as needed

Afternoon shift
+ show more
&nbsp;
Location
Toronto, ON
&nbsp;
Benefits
Pulled from the full job description
Dental care
Paid vacation
RRSP match
Wellness program
&nbsp;
Full job description
Computer Methods International Corp. (CMiC) is a software Development firm specializing in enterprise financial and cost management systems designed for the Construction and Engineering industries.

Duties & Responsibilities


An opening currently exists for an Oracle Middleware/DBA Evening Analyst. Duties and responsibilities (may include, but are not limited to, the following):


Working hours for this position will be either in 8 am to 4.30 pm EST or 2 to 10.30 pm EST.
Accountable for the deployment, development, enhancement, support and maintenance of databases within our Enterprise application
Develops/improves database standards ensuring CMiC meets our overall SLA's in order to provide optimum maintenance and consistency across applications
Research technical problems, analyze business requirements, evaluate alternative design approaches, and design technical processes to meet business requirements
Participates in project and team meetings interacting and collaborating with team members and other departments as appropriate
Estimate and document required work effort to develop, test and implement new technical processes/changes
Create technical documentation of implementation activities for management and other team members
Test and debug program units in conjunction with other units and/or systems and integrate with other program modules and systems
Provides technical support and mentoring to other team members in order to foster professional development
Provide guidance, support and reporting with other management members
Other related duties as assigned
We are looking for a candidate who is technically sound with strong communication and leadership skills.

Requirements

College/University Degree - preferable in Computer Science, Electrical/Software Engineering or Math/Physics (Computer Sc. stream) or equivalent experience
Minimum 5 years in Oracle DBA, systems analysis, programming or a comparable role within a software company and proven problem-solving skills
Minimum 2 years of management experience
Working in the morning shift (8-4.30 pm EST) or evening shift (2-10.30 pm EST) is a must.
Experience with web-based client applications and enterprise deployment strategies (load balancing and high availability installs)
Should have previous hands-on technical working experience with the following Technologies:
Oracle Application Weblogic Server 11g/12c is a must
Oracle Identity 10g/11g/12c is a must
Oracle Access Manager 12c is a must
Oracle Forms
Oracle Reports
Oracle Database 11g/12c/18c
J2EE Programs
Knowledge of RAC is welcome.
Knowledge of DataGuard is welcome.
Some in-depth knowledge of design and analysis methodology and application development processes from both a Business (Project Management/Accounting) and IT perspective
Solid understanding of Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) and Quality Assurance (QA) requirements
Experience working with clients or in a team-based environment and working under pressure/time constraints
Shift work: CMIC DBA Services has multiple shifts and provides coverage from 7 am to 11.59 pm EST. The applicant needs to understand that the shift might not be standard 9-5 pm EST and needs to be comfortable working very early or in the afternoon. Once the shift is established, the hours don’t change significantly but are subject to change.
On-Call requirements: Applications understand that they will be participating in on-call rotation for the weekends to cover the issues, projects or outages that occur on the weekend.
Excellent written and oral communication skills
Proficiency using MS Office Products
Proficiency using MS SharePoint
Benefits

Competitive benefits Package (including Health & Dental benefits)
Paid vacation and personal days
Quarterly townhall meetings where all employees are encouraged to participate in open discussions
An active Social Events Committee (past events include annual seasonal parties, pool and bowling tournaments, karaoke nights, Game nights, BBQ’s, and more)
Health and Wellness focus including virtual yoga classes and wellness webinars
RRSP Matching Program after 2 years of employment
Availability for some remote work
Experience in a rapidly growing, socially responsible corporation
CMiC is an Equal Opportunity Employer. In accordance with the Accessibility for Ontarians with Disabilities Act, 2005 and the Ontario Human Rights Code, CMiC will provide accommodation to applicants with disabilities throughout the recruitment, selection and/or assessment process. If selected to participate in the recruitment, selection and/or assessment process, please inform Human Resources staff of the nature of any accommodation(s) that you may require.